<div id="root"><article style="padding: 20px;"><h1 style="text-align: center;">Alexander Hagerman</h1><div style="text-align: center; padding: 0px;"><a href="mailto:alexander@burningdaylight.io?subject=Resume">alexander@burningdaylight.io</a></div><div style="text-align: center; font-weight: bold;">Portfolios: <a href="#/portfolio">burningdaylight</a>&nbsp;|&nbsp;<a href="https://github.com/n0mn0m" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">github</a></div><section style="text-align: center;"><p>I am a software engineer with over a decade of experience. In that time I have worked across a variety of domains, stacks and teams building frontend web and mobile interfaces, distributed backend services while managing legacy systems. I enjoy working in environments that require continuous learning and collaboration to solve challenging problems. These days I prefer working on tools that empower individuals to create.</p></section><section><h1>Professional Experience</h1><ol style="list-style-type: none;"><li class="portfolio-item"><div style="font-weight: bold;">Lead ML Tooling Engineer</div><p style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);">06/2021 - Current | <a href="https://www.flocksafety.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">Flock Safety</a> </p><ul><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Design and implement audio, object tracking and device health annotation tools.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Responsible for identifying candidates to grow the team, onboarding and training new engineers, and managing the team's technical roadmap.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Lead the designed and implementation of image annotation tools.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Set up and maintain frontend build and testing tools.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Designed and implemented a data versioning tool to support annotation lineage and management.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Lead the design and implementation of an annotation campaign process to streamline the collection and validation of data across tools.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Responsible for supporting and securing data interfaces allowing service to service, frontend and other ad hoc integrations.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Mentor other engineers and collaborate across teams for new product features.</span></li></ul></li><li class="portfolio-item"><div style="font-weight: bold;">Senior Software Engineer</div><p style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);">02/2021 - 05/2021 | <a href="https://renci.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">RENCI</a> </p><ul><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Worked to develop the <a href="https://github.com/helxplatform" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">HeLx Platform</a> to support NIH HEAL research.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Refactor HeLx platform Django application to surface data via REST endpoints.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Collaborated on a new react based frontend for the HeLx Appstore.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Instrument Kubernetes pod utilization and surface data through service endpoints.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Refactor application packaging and update continuous integration practices.</span></li></ul></li><li class="portfolio-item"><div style="font-weight: bold;">Lead Software Engineer</div><p style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);">06/2020 - 02/2021 | <a href="https://www.samtec.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">Samtec</a> </p><ul><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Lead/manage the development of new asset management system to synchronize asset data and streamline existing assets.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Created an improved asset maintenance system to support global operations.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Collaborate with engineers and internal stakeholders to execute feature implementations and process improvement.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Provide key insights for organizational planning on data management and optimization.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Mentor, coach, and train engineers in new practices/tools/technology.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Develop and oversee continuous integration and deployment infrastructure to increase overall productivity.</span></li></ul></li><li class="portfolio-item"><div style="font-weight: bold;">Senior Software Engineer</div><p style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);">08/2019 - 06/2020; 07-2015 - 03/2019 | <a href="https://www.humana.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">Humana</a> </p><ul><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Spearheaded the creation of a provider fax routing system by building out OCR as a service for patient record documents.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Facilitated the implementation of middleware layer/rule management for company Sytrue initiatives.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Setup, deployed, and managed first real time NLP services on Azure to strengthen job progression and computer capabilities.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Collaborated on breast cancer research project by utilizing NLP to research stage information based on diagnosis markers.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Increased Doctor Patient Note OCR post processing data throughput by migrating localized python services to pyspark.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Monitored potential fraud rule detection by processing provider documentation a set of NLP rules.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Built/managed a library of queries and reports to assist fraud investigators.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Assisted NLP development team in the transition to Agile methodologies through change management and team leadership skills.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Foster continuous process improvement by implementing Azure identity service (MSAL/AAD) into C# and Python services.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Develop prem to Azure Databricks deployment service, ADLS Generation 2 C# library, and CLI.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Served as architect and senior developer of the Retail Data Science Research and Development platform.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Introduced and streamlined multiple software development practices like version control, continuous integration/deployment, code review, and dependency management.</span></li></ul></li><li class="portfolio-item"><div style="font-weight: bold;">Senior Software Engineer</div><p style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);">04/2019 - 08/2019 | <a href="https://www.elastic.co/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">Elastic</a> </p><ul><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Worked across teams to develop an end-to-end testing framework for the customer journey through GCP marketplace to Elastic.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Migration of backend services from Python 2 to Python 3.7.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Expanded automated testing practices for Python 2 and 3 code bases.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Built a tool that enabled data migration from Elasticsearch to Postgres.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Delivered troubleshooting and production incident response for billing services and clusters.</span></li></ul></li><li class="portfolio-item"><div style="font-weight: bold;">Senior Analytic Consultant | Analytic Consultant | Developer</div><p style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);">01/2012 - 07/2015 | <a href="https://www.alvaria.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">Aspect</a> </p><ul><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Built out Microsoft SSIS/SSAS analytics infrastructure to support customer service call center operations for PetSafe, Delta, and Jet Blue.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Created enhanced web-based data visualizations to facilitate cross-functional application development teams on healthcare projects.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Delivered on-site consulting and guidance to clients by evaluating call center analytic needs.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Developed new productivity KPIs for call center clients via Microsoft BI stack to transform overall day-to-day operations and facilitate process improvement.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Headed client training programs on business intelligence tools/concepts to assist in future BI projects and process improvement identification.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Served as developer on SharePoint 2013 C# Applications, C# MVP Applications, and custom C# CLI applications to handle token management.</span></li></ul></li><li class="portfolio-item"><div style="font-weight: bold;">Junior Developer</div><p style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);">03/2012 - 11/2012 | <a href="https://www.allsafeindustries.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">All Safe Industries</a> </p><ul><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Built a product catalog ETL to consolidate product data into a single CMS.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Analyzed historical sales trends to improve decision making for web store strategies.</span></li></ul></li><li class="portfolio-item"><div style="font-weight: bold;">Intern</div><p style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);">01/2011 - 05/2011 | <a href="https://owensborocatholic.org/schools/ochs/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">Owensboro Catholic High School</a> </p><ul><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Developed VB6 scripts for printer fleet management by scripting out the install/management for printers across all computer labs.</span></li><li style="color: rgb(74, 74, 74);"><span>Administered active directory group policy/deployment by developing policies and implementing across all school groups.</span></li></ul></li></ol></section><section><h1>Education</h1><p>08/2011 | Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Technologies | Western Kentucky University</p><h1>Certificates</h1><ul><li>The Technology of Music Production (Coursera, January 2021)</li><li>Developing your Musicianship (Coursera, December 2020)</li><li>CSS for JavaScript Developers (Workshop, October 2020)</li><li>UT.6.10x: Embedded Systems - Shape the World: Microcontroller Input/Output (edX, November 2019)</li><li>Triplebyte Certified Generalist Software Engineer (Triplebyte August 2019)</li><li>Data Visualization (Dataquest.io April 2016)</li><li>Data Analysis with Pandas: Intermediate Course (Dataquest.io September 2015)</li><li>MCSD: Web Applications (Microsoft, June 2014)</li><li>Developing Microsoft Azure and Web Services (Microsoft, June 2014)</li><li>Developing ASP.NET MVC 4 Web Applications (Microsoft, February 2013)</li><li>Programming in HTML5, CSS#, JavaScript 70-480 (Microsoft, January 2013)</li></ul></section><section><h1>Awards</h1><ul><li>Hackaday Connected World Contest Award - Connected Roomba</li><li>2018 Humana Star Award - Data Engineering</li></ul></section><section><h1>Technical Skills &amp; Competencies</h1><p>Python, C#, TypeScript, Rust, C++, .NET Core, Django, React, Bash, SQL<br>Postgres, SQL Server, SQLite, Elasticsearch, MongoDB, Redis, Netezza, CosmosDB<br>SQS, PubSub, Azure Queues, Kafka, RabbitMQ<br>HDFS, Azure Data Lake Storage Gen 2, S3<br>AWS, Azure, GCP<br>Azure Pipelines, Azure DevOps, Circle CI, GitHub Actions, Jenkins<br>Linux, Docker, Kubernetes, Fargate, Terraform<br>Software Architecture, Software Testing, Pair Programming, CI/CD<br>Mentoring, Leadership, Team Building</p></section><section><h1>Talks</h1><ul><li><a href="https://github.com/DerbyPy/python_for_embedded_systems">Python for Embedded Hardware</a> (DerbyPy, Louisville, KY) - June 2019</li><li><a href="https://github.com/DerbyPy/what-is-odbc">What is ODBC</a> (DerbyPy, Louisville, KY) - March 2019</li><li><a href="https://github.com/DerbyPy/intro-to-pyspark">Intro to PySpark</a> (DerbyPy, Louisville, KY) - October 2018</li><li><a href="https://github.com/DerbyPy/modules-and-packages-intro">Python Modules and Packages</a> (DerbyPy, Louisville, KY) - September 2018</li><li>Column Oriented Data (DerbyPy, Louisville, KY) - June 2018</li></ul></section><section><h1>Volunteer &amp; Open-Source Experience</h1><ul><li><a href="https://aioodbc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">aioodbc</a> - configuration tuning documentation</li><li><a href="https://recogito.github.io/annotorious/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">Annotorious</a> - docs and gitter chat help</li><li><a href="https://arrow.apache.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">Apache Arrow</a> - setup.py and API documentation updates, Subpool implementation, and add has capabilities for scalar values in Python</li><li><a href="https://www.codelouisville.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">Code Louisville</a> - taught a range of topics including Python, debugging, databases, and Django</li><li><a href="https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/browsers/mobile/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">Firefox Mobile</a> - bug fix for incorrect axis locking</li><li><a href="https://www.pymssql.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">PyMSSQL</a> - mentor contributors, updated CI and platform builds, release manager for 2.1.4</li><li><a href="https://wavesurfer-js.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">wavesurfer.js</a> - region plugin update for event broadcasting</li></ul></section><section><h1>Memberships</h1><ul><li><a href="https://www.acm.org" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">ACM</a></li><li><a href="https://h3lou.org" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">Hardware Happy Hour Louisville</a></li><li><a href="https://github.com/derbypy" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer nofollow">DerbyPy</a></li></ul></section></article></div>